======= Review 1 =======

*** Detailed comments to author(s): Please justify your recommendation and suggest improvements in technical content or presentation for the author(s). Please be as detailed and constructive as you can be.

The paper shows how one within the existing MPI standard can make the system more fault tolerant by using on-demand checkpointing and algorithmic failure recovery (AFR). The main contribution of the paper is to show how an MPI implementation can be modified so that once it discovers a local error, it will signal the remaining processes so that they can make a controlled halt. By using AFR it is then possible to resume the computation without much loss of time.

It is surprising that MPI implementations do not already have the possibility of letting the user determine how to end the computation once (a local) problem occurs. As the paper describes this is possible within the existing standard.

Although the paper describes how the AFR technique from [16] can be used in such a setting to resume work quickly, it is not immediate to me that this has all the stated advantages over regular checkpointing.  The reason for this is that there seems to be a substantial cost in developing and implementing AFR techniques. Also, AFR techniques can only handle certain types of errors, while checkpointing is more fail-safe. Still, this is no reason why it should not be up to the user to determine how to end a faulty computation.

======= Review 2 =======

*** Detailed comments to author(s): Please justify your recommendation and suggest improvements in technical content or presentation for the author(s). Please be as detailed and constructive as you can be.

This paper presents a QR-factorization algorithm with redundancy carefully built into it in order to recover from failure using forward-recovery. The authors project the paper along the lines of on-demand checkpointing without changing the MPI standard. Though there are interesting contributions along these aspects (maybe not for an algorithmic track but an applications track), I really feel the novelty aspects are pretty low along these dimensions -- and that the real contribution lies in the clever introduction of redundancy for QR. The algorithmic discussions in the paper are mostly related to QR and these are not extendable as is for other applications (maybe for a few numerical linear algebra subroutines); these are not generic techniques but require careful changes in the specific code. I don't find the paper contents to be as generic as the title seems to suggest.

Comments:
1. The experimental results do not consider large system sizes
2. No direct performance comparison has been done with periodic checkpointing
3. Notation Q is overloaded.
4. Page 5, were >>where
5. Page 9: Alpha >> \alpha
6. Page 10: benchmark 'on' a small cluster
7. Page 10: On demande
8. Et al. has been used in references. Please provide complete list of authors.
9. There is no ordering of the references

======= Review 3 =======

*** Detailed comments to author(s): Please justify your recommendation and suggest improvements in technical content or presentation for the author(s). Please be as detailed and constructive as you can be.

Creative and light-weight schemes for fault-tolerance are needed and welcome.  So this contribution is interesting enough to warrant consideration.  The approach here is to not require changes to the current MPI standard, and to support algorithm-based fault tolerance (ABFT).  The latter is the term for checksum-based schemes whereby algorithms can detect and recover from errors, at the cost of a bit more computation en route, but not requiring expensive periodic checkpoints and rollback.

My lack of high enthusiasm for this paper stems from the low potential impact and some serious questions about the details of the idea.

First the questions about what is actually supposed to happen.  The paper is way to vague about some tricky details communication on message-passing systems.  For example, on page 4 we read that in the case of a link failure "... all processes are able to save the local state, and the recovery procedure will simply consist in determining the global state at the moment of failure."  How exactly do you determine the global state at the moment of failure?  Then on page 5 the claim is made that canceling outstanding communication requests involving the communicator with the failed process will prevent any future dependency issues.  I'm pretty sure it's not that simple.  The many communication modes in MPI, and the fact that messages may be "in flight" in several ways, make this problem subtle and difficult.  At best, details are lacking in terms of how the proposed system handles handle these issues.

Now regarding impact.  A big concern about ABFT is that its scope is limited: some algorithms have ABFT versions (linear algebra being a heavily mined example), many as yet do not.  And constructing ABFT versions of complex industrial-strength codes is an even more daunting challenge.  A second issue regarding impact is simply to note that the proposed approach requires modifications to most current implementations of MPI (though no change to the standard itself), so I don't know how much of a win that is (vs. waiting for whatever fault-tolerance stuff comes out of current MPI3 discussions).

Finally, a few more miscellaneous questions/issues ...

It would help if a few more details were given about the "dry run" restart process.  Would some floating-point have to be redone, depending on where the fault occurs?  Does the programmer have to generate a separate version of the code to be executed on restart?

It's too bad the experimental results on the larger (than 16 nodes) system were not usable.  Fault-tolerance is obviously of bigger concern on larger systems, and scalability of the solution could be evaluated with experiments on larger systems.

Spell check please: compleixty, mtraix, restars, Demande

======= Review 4 =======

*** Detailed comments to author(s): Please justify your recommendation and suggest improvements in technical content or presentation for the author(s). Please be as detailed and constructive as you can be.

The authors present and implement an alternate to the common error handling in most MPI implementations, without violating the MPI-2 standard.  In the event of a failure, instead of killing all processes immediately, the authors' extensions permits all alive processes to exit after saving checkpointing data.  The next part of the paper presents a dense QR factorization that would be fault tolerant without the need for periodic checkpointing under the proposed MPI implementation.

The idea of on-demand checkpointing upon failure detection, as opposed to the conventional periodic checkpointing in anticipation of a failure, may be a promising one.  However, this paper presents no evidence that it is, and chances are that it may not be.  Just because a fault tolerant dense QR factorization (and perhaps LU and Cholesky factorizations too) can be implemented under the proposed checkpointing model, does not mean that a substantial number of practical algorithms can be.  If the authors knew of one, then they would have mentioned it instead of describing a toy algorithm. Half of the paper with any technical content is about dense QR, and most of the remainder contains unsubstantiated claims about how the proposed checkpointing-upon-failure scheme can overcome the performance problems associated with conventional checkpointing.  I can't imagine any real application that would perform dense QR/LU/Cholesky on an exascale machine (the paper starts out by claiming that Exascale is the motivation for this work).

The paper seems to have been put together in a rush.  It has numerous typos, presentation of ideas is not coherent, and there are several repetitions.  Name of ScaLAPACK routines are used without explanations, making some of the content accessible to only those who are familiar with the inner workings of ScaLAPACK.



